---
title: "May 2024 Update"
author: "Alex"
date: "June, 01 2024"
image: "/blog/placeholder.jpg"
---

#### Update Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vqapgMpsmNA?si=_w9lFMKGqNiZcgTi" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<br/>

### What's changed?

Bootstrap has been completely removed and Tailwind has been put in. Music is _very_ close to being done.

#### Development Improvements

- Tailwind provides **a lot** more flexibility when it comes to style.
- No more random css files and relying on Bootstrap to have the component I'm looking for
- We can now import and parse measures from music xml into abc format, which is how they will be stored.
  - Now, the pages just need to be aligned with the measures.

#### New UI Features

- Some things look cleaner thanks to tailwind!
  - Other things still need work
- There are tooltips in the bottom left when hovering over a button (rather than it coming from the button itself)
- A timeline! This will be more fleshed out when I get the measures integrated.

### Goals accomplished this month

Ehhh nothing really got _finished_, but we're close!

Must haves -

- [ ] Finish music implementation with MusicXMLs
  - Almost done with this!
  - We're converting musicXMLs into ABC notation, and then reducing them to just measures and tempos.
- [ ] Workflow for creating pages with MusicXML or just raw
  - Close!

Nice to haves -

- [ ] Create pages just on an audio file with no MusicXML
- [x] Organize buttons in the UI
  - It looks better, but not really fixed
- [ ] Misc bugs (lots of old issues that need to be addressed)

### Plans for June

We're really close to making a lot of breakthroughs.
I will probably finish a lot of these tasks either tomorrow or this coming week.

Measures will be the "time containers" of OpenMarch.
They will dictate the tempo and the pages will just be aligned to measures based on how many counts they are

Must haves -

- Finish music implementation
  - Importing musicXML files
  - Aligning the pages with the measures
    - Pages will no longer hold their own tempo. They will be calculated at runtime based on the measures
  - Importing music file and making sure it plays correctly
- Clean up the timeline and make it more practical
- Making continuous animation (not just stopping at each page)

Nice to haves -

- UI for creating your own measures. Right now it's just MusicXML import

Remember, you can always check the [GitHub](https://github.com/AlexDumo/OpenMarch) project to see what current issues are in the queue.
