---
title: "February 2024 Update"
author: "Alex Dumouchelle"
date: 2024-02-29
image: "/blog/placeholder.jpg"
---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/M4_Q3B_El-Q?si=ojuc2o1cXxlxJsXR" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<br/>

### What's changed?

February was not a very feature-rich month. In an effort to make this more of a mature app and less of a grad learning web-dev playground, 90% of my time has been put towards writing tests and checks. This took learning how front-end testing works with Jest and React Testing Library and going through all of the code I have written. In doing such, I'm looking at months old code that was not made with testing in mind. So, planning for the long term, I'm refactoring a lot of unorganized code (which I thought was organized in the moment) to be more modular and sensible to maintenance. This is anything from making components smaller, to converting typescript interfaces to classes with relevant methods.

#### Features that I started

- Animation! (kind of)
  - You can play, not stop or pause
  - All animations are one second, regardless of tempo or distance
  - It's just overall glitch
- Exporting individual marcher coordinate sheets as pdf! (kind of)
  - works, but is a bit glitchy and ugly

I can build this super fast and make a bunch of new features, or I can build with safety and common sense. The former is what I was doing, which is really fun and engaging; but the latter is what I need to be doing, which is difficult to stay motivated for. Slowly but surely I'm closing the cracks in this code and I can get back to building new stuff.

<!-- #### Tiny things -->

### Plans for March

Must haves -

- Complete unit tests
- Integration tests for most things
  - Especially interacting with the canvas. How do I do that?
- Class based objects. Less interfaces in inappropriate spots

Nice to haves (basically the same from last month) -

- Complete animation features
- Show marchers from prev page
- Show pathways to prev page
- Snap to yard line or hash
- Find a better default location for marchers?
- Evenly distribute marchers function

Remember, you can always check the [GitHub](https://github.com/AlexDumo/OpenMarch) project to see what current issues are in the queue.
