---
layout: post
title: "September 2024 Update"
date: 2024-09-08 12:00:00 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---

## September 2024

#### Update Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bPWCBnLboqk?si=7rb6wJ5QUwovlf3H" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<br/>

### What's changed?

OpenMarch development is gaining momentum!
Many things that were designed with a short-term result in mind are now being refactored to support easy addition.
This will allow for easier testing, faster development, and quicker onboarding for future contributors (please).

Also, there was a weird bug where OpenMarch took 3-4 seconds to do ANYTHING (loading marchers, changing pages, etc).
I couldn't seem to figure out why this was happening, but it only affected my Macbook's main account.
Making a new account fixed it.
Must have been some software I installed that messed with it.

We're now going full throttle to get this ready for the 2025 marching season!

### Goals accomplished this month

I said that I was hoping for OpenMarch to be much more mature by August.
Even though it's past August (whoops) a lot of work has gotten done!
Everything I implement now has an informed "long term maintainability" approach.
Code is reusable, I'm writing tests as I go, and I'm waaayy more familiar with all of the underlying software OpenMarch runs on (React, Electron, Fabric.js).
Here's a few things I've finished:

- Switched from Jest to Vitest
  - This was probably not necessary, but the tests are faster!
- Got an Apple code signing certificate, so MacOS doesn't think OpenMarch is a virus!
  - Also (kind of) figured out how to let a user launch OpenMarch from a file in finder

I now have a _plan_ and _vision_ for exactly how I'm going to make OpenMarch more stable and usable.
Development of this is more test-driven, which I have been saying for months, but I've really gotten into a flow of how I want my vanilla Typescript classes to interact with my React components.

These are the things I'm working on right now:

- "Draw and distribute" marchers in a line
  - ~60% done with this
  - Once I finish this, adding curves, squares, and other shapes should be much quicker
- Refactoring the database operations into separate generic classes
  - ~30% done with this
  - This is what's going to inspire confidence in stability and allow me to add new objects quicker
  - Using the simple principles of reusability, I don't need to write nearly as many tests
- High school football field
  - This is actually already done, I just need a UI to let the user switch

As an aside, I've been getting into the habit of going to bed sooner and waking up early to work on OpenMarch.
I used to work on this only at nights, but allows me to make certain that I find the time for it every day.

### Plans for October

Hopefully I'll have some full-fat features I can share.
I don't want to rush things, but here's what I want done:

Must haves -

- Refactor the electron database code
  - This will come with testing and easier implementation
- Draw and distributing lines of marchers

Nice to haves -

- Adding measures manually
- "Snap to grid" mode where marchers can only move by whole step

Remember, you can always check the [GitHub](https://github.com/OpenMarch/OpenMarch) project to see what current issues are in the queue.
